Good afternoon.
My name is Mark Tozer.
I'm the technology
evangelist for hardware.
You're in session 111, Accessing SCSI and
ATA Devices in Mac OS X.
Today we'll go over lots of topics,
and this is not SCSI as
SCSI hardware connecting SCSI,
so for those of you who think
we're going back to SCSI,
that's not the case.
This is the protocol.
I'd like to invite Tim McLeod,
engineer in the mass
storage software group.
Thank you, Marc.
So, this session today,
we're going to talk about
SCSI and ATA Devices.
The last couple years,
we focused on how to write
drivers so that these devices
can be used by Mac OS X.
This year,
we're going to focus more on how
do applications make use of these
services provided by these devices.
There's already many
services built into Mac OS X,
The next release of JAGUAR will
be adding even more,
such as scanner support
via image capture,
printing support via CUPS,
and disk burning through the
disk recording framework.
So,
I know the question everyone here has is,
what are these services,
how do they differ,
and which one should you be using?
So what you will actually
take away from this session is
what SCSI and ATA devices are,
what we mean when we use
the term SCSI or ATA,
how these devices are
represented in Mac OS X,
the services that are
provided by these devices,
and how to access these
devices from applications.
So first, what is a SCSI device?
A SCSI device is defined as a device that
complies with one of the SCSI command
sets as defined by the T10 committee,
which is the controlling committee
for SCSI and SCSI specifications.
A SCSI device can actually be connected
via different physical interconnects,
such as FireWire,
ATA using the Atapi protocol, USB,
or traditional SCSI parallel.
More information on these can be found
at the T10 website at www.t10.org.
Now, in Mac OS X, when we say SCSI,
we don't mean traditional parallel SCSI.
When we do mean the traditional SCSI,
parallel SCSI,
we will actually be talking
about the SCSI protocol.
We will actually use
the name SCSI parallel,
or the more formal name,
SCSI parallel interface.
So next, what is an ATA device?
Well, an ATA device is a device that
meets one of the specifications
defined by the T13 Committee,
which is the controlling
committee for ATA.
And these are such devices as
standard ATA hard drives or
PCMCIA ATA devices such as the
IBM MicroDrive or CompactFlash.
And more information on this can be
found at the T13 website at www.t13.org.
So SCSI and ATA devices can provide
different types of services.
One is, of course,
standard storage services
such as mounting volumes
and reading/writing blocks.
Other are application-specific
services such as tape drives,
scanners, and printers.
Or a device can actually provide both,
such as DVD drives,
which provide both block read and
write and an application-specific
service such as disk writing.
Now, there are a couple assumptions
and limitations that are placed on
these type of devices in Mac OS X.
One of the main assumptions
is we treat all devices as
detachable from the system.
So any device is designed to
be hot-pluggable regardless of
what bus it's connected via.
and the other one is only a single entity
can control a device at any given time.
So basically one driver or application
owns the device at any time.
So first, let's look at the general
model of how storage devices
are presented in Mac OS X.
So first you have the controller layer,
which is actually the
lowest level hardware layer,
which encompasses things
like the PCI chip,
the controller chip,
and any of the services
provided by the hardware.
To allow the transport
layer to talk to it.
The transport layers actually
have requests get sent
down across a physical bus.
On top of the transport layer,
we have the device services layer,
which is these are the services that are
provided by these devices to the system,
and this is how the system and
applications access these services.
And in storage on top of that,
we have the media access layer,
which provides an entry point for
the BSD media shims and allows
volumes to be mounted on it so that
block reading rights can occur.
So first we'll look at the ATA model.
So the way an ATA device fits into this
is you have the control at the bottom,
which creates an IO-ATA device,
which on top is the
IO-ATA block storage driver,
and this makes up the transport layer.
On top of that,
in the device services layer,
you have the IO-ATA block storage device,
which actually translates between
the IO block storage driver,
which is the entry point into
the device services layer,
for the IO media object,
which represents the media in the device.
And then on top of that,
you can have BSD media shims and more
IO media objects that represent volumes.
For SCSI storage,
and in this example we use a DVD drive,
in the controller layer we
have the IO-ATA controller.
The transport layer in this
case actually has three pieces.
We have the IOTOPI protocol transport,
which converts between the
SCSI architecture model
pieces and the ATA bus.
That's how SCSI tasks get
sent to the device across ATA.
On top of that we have the
IOScsi peripheral device nub,
which represents the physical device.
And then we have the IOScsi
peripheral device type 5 driver,
which is actually what builds
and sends commands to the device.
On top of that we have
the IODVD services,
which provides an interface
for IODVD block storage driver,
which allows system requests for reading
and writing from the IOMedia object,
which allows us to read and write
blocks from the volumes on that media.
So the next we have is
SCSI application-specific model.
So like I said,
devices can either provide
storage function or
application-specific function.
In this example,
we use a FireWire tape drive.
In the control layer,
we have IO FireWire family
and IO FireWire SBB2.
This represents the necessary
protocols for the IO FireWire
serial bus protocol transport
to send commands across the bus.
the IFYWire serial bus
protocol transport,
Connects the SCSI architecture model
pieces with the I/O Firewire family.
On top of that,
we have I/O SCSI peripheral device nub.
But in this case,
since it's a device that does not
have a driver already in the system,
it actually will allow the SCSI task
user client to load on top of
it in the device services layer,
which allows an application
to talk to the device.
So there are actually several
methods of access to talk to
these devices in Mac OS X.
And an application can access the
provided services via these methods,
the Media Access Layer and
BSD Media Shims and IR Media Filters.
This is basically how you
would talk to a mounted volume.
The other is user clients,
both provided and custom.
Mac OS X provides some,
and it also allows third parties
to provide their own for special
and specific vendor features.
The IORegistry for doing very simple
transfer of the information between an
application and the device's driver.
And then the last thing we're actually
going to talk about are older methods
of access which are being obsoleted
and how you can migrate from these.
And these are such things
as the IOSSCSI Live,
IOCDB Live, and SCSI Action.
And so now to talk about
the first method of access,
which is the media access layer,
the BSD shims and volumes,
is Craig Marciniak.
Thank you.
Good evening.
I'm Craig Marciniak,
and we're going to have
so much fun tonight,
you just won't be able
to contain yourself.
There's a myth that mass
storage is kind of boring,
and we're here to dispel that.
Okay, so we're going to learn
about IO Media Objects.
And the BSD and Unix experts
in here are going to have to
bear with me a little bit.
For the benefit of
traditional Mac programmers,
I'm going to give a real brief
overview of some real basic
IO functions and how the BSD APIs work.
And then we'll talk a little bit about,
once we understand that,
of how you get to the
BSD APIs from Carbon and Cocoa.
And then I'm going to talk
about how IO filters work,
which are going to be
interesting to some people here.
And then to bring it all home,
tie it all together,
we've prepared a zippy, fun little demo.
So just to set context,
I'm going to be talking about the media
access layer and the objects and the
support in that section of the stack.
Okay,
IO Media Objects are contiguous logical
object representations of storage.
This is all abstracted up away from all
the bus specifics and idiosyncrasies.
It's really pretty straightforward.
It's a byte-based API that's
64-bit clean at this point.
So here's the overview of the BSD stuff.
Device nodes, we talk about device nodes,
you'll hear people talk
about device nodes.
They're nothing but file representations
of physical hardware on your machine.
If you go to the directory dev
slash dev and do a listing,
you're going to see file representations
of your hardware and you can
open them up and read and write,
close,
and we're going to learn about something
called iOcto a little bit later.
The BSD interface is the
user client access point.
The examples I have here are dev disk
zero and you'll see a lot of things
that mirror it with an R in front of it.
The R in this case for
disk zero means raw.
And so it's a real straightforward,
simple, five-point API, open, read,
write, close, iOctl.
Some of the books,
when you go get Unix books,
we'll talk about other API stuff
that we don't implement.
So there are two BSD device interfaces,
the raw and the block.
There's a lot of confusion about the RAW.
If you go and read the,
there's the red book
with the devil on it,
the design and implementation of BSD 4.4.
It refers to and it talks to it and it's
known as the character device interface.
This really confuses people because
this is what we're talking about
here is a block interface and you
shouldn't think of characters as 8
byte ASCII values or byte streams.
This has nothing to do with it.
This goes back to legacy terminology
for this was a way to do TTY access.
So the block interface,
what we've done to try to avoid the
confusion internally is we always
refer to the RAW device interface
and the block device interface.
If you're really interested
in the details on this,
on page 201 of the design and
implementation of BSD 4.4,
about halfway down the page,
there's a really good description.
That brings up all this
stuff for the curious.
The raw device accesses through the /dev,
R, disk, blah, blah, blah device nodes.
Access must be a multiple of the
natural block size of that device or
it will be rejected with an error.
Low-level disk utilities
should be using this interface.
Another example is,
let's say someone has a high-end database
that does not want to go through the UBC.
The unified buffer cache.
Because they have a usage pattern that
isn't optimized for that particular
caching scheme and they want to
implement their own caching scheme,
they would be candidates that might
want to use the raw device interface.
So the block device interface,
media is accessed through
just the normal disk entry.
Access does not have to be a multiple
of the natural block size of the device.
You can ask for arbitrary lengths
and arbitrary addresses of stuff.
The file systems generally
use this interface.
So using the interfaces,
you would use the
POSIX style IO functions.
This is the open, read, write, close,
and iOctal.
And this shouldn't be confused
with the ANSI standard C APIs.
The modes follow the
established Unix semantics.
Modes is the permissions,
and you can use the man page to
get all the Unix semantics if
you're not familiar with them.
And so once you get to this point,
you need a BSD path to do stuff.
So, ending paths from Cocoa.
Cocoa's NS file manager and workspace,
NS workspace, use mount points.
Mount points can be translated
to BSD paths from the get
mount info call or statfs.
So here's an example.
This is kind of goofy pseudocode.
and We're going to look for something as
a mount to name that equals mount point.
When we find that, there's an element off
this StataFS structure
called mount to from name,
and we can get the BSD path from there.
It turns out that getMountInfo
actually calls StataFS.
This is a shortcut if you don't have the
requirement to iterate through stuff.
So getting BSD passed from Carbon.
Carbon traditional APIs use
volume reference numbers.
There's a whole bunch of different ways
you can get volume reference numbers.
Most people that have experience
with that know what they need.
And so here's one example of taking
a VREFNUM and using the PBH get
volume parameters sync call.
We have the VM device ID here,
which actually turns out to be the path.
So.
I'm going to go through
those APIs really quick.
Open.
Basically,
we need to... The first argument
is going to be our path.
The second argument is the mode.
In this case, it's a read-only.
There's a pattern here.
The FDU,
the file descriptor in this case,
if it comes back negative one,
it failed to open,
and you can use AirNode to get
refined information on that error.
Again, see the man pages.
The BSD design and implementation for
an operating system book is really good,
and Stephen's advanced programming
in the Unix environment is
also a really good reference.
Read and writes are
pretty straightforward.
Once we have a valid
opened file descriptor,
we can pass that in.
We give it our read count again.
If it fails, we'll get a negative
one in the byte count,
and we can go look at that error.
Reads use the similar thing.
Very straightforward.
Now we go to IOctals.
IOctals, I've also heard some people
call them IO Controls.
It means IO Controls.
Traditional Mac programmers,
this is just like a PB Control call.
We provide a whole bunch of them for you.
Actually, not that many.
You can go to the IO Media BSD client
and the CD Media BSD client,
and these header files will define them.
The examples I have on the
bottom here are... DKIOC Eject.
They look kind of hard to read at first.
Historically, just for the trivia,
DK means disk.
The IOC means IO Control.
The first one would be an Eject.
The second one is a Get Block Size.
New to Jaguar, we've added some stuff
for our optical devices.
The flush, excuse me,
synchronized cache call, the read talk,
the read disk info and read
track information for the CDs.
Then in DV, we've added read disk info
and read our zone info.
So here's an example where we actually
open up and get a valid descriptor.
And we're going to use the
iActl to get the block size.
And once we call that,
when we come back without an error,
we can actually print BS to the screen.
Media filters provide block-oriented
parsing at a strategic place high
up in the stack at this media
access layer that's completely
abstracted away from all the buzz
specifics and idiosyncrasies.
Again, this is a byte-based
API with 64-bit parameters.
Last year's presentation,
we did an overview of the whole
mass storage architecture.
In the last chapter of that book,
we actually have a brief
description and some example
code to actually write a filter.
We have refined and polished
and made a much better example,
which will be available
to you from our website.
And we've actually, for this session,
designed and wrote a nice little
filter that I'm going to call up.
Dan, I'm sorry, I'm ahead of myself.
The simple media filter,
I've got to back up.
A simple media filter basically
takes this IO media object,
which is a representation of media,
filters it, and then presents filtered
media to the system.
What we've done here is
the filter represents this
purple color which is tinted,
this hard drive,
to show that it is now filtered.
As it turns out,
a partition scheme is nothing
more than a complex filter.
So we take an IO media
representation of a full volume
and we supply multiple partitions.
We can do arbitrarily complex filters.
The classic example is Software Raid,
where we can take any
amount of IO objects,
filter them,
and present anything we really want to.
There's really no limit to
what you can do with this.
We expect to see lots of
interesting things from our...
and other developers.
Now I'll bring up
Dan Preston for the demo.
So, we came up with an example
filter scheme for this session.
And all it does is simple byte swapping.
So, in any filter scheme,
the most important calls are the
read and the write because they're
actually doing the filtering for you.
So, let's go ahead and take a look
at the read example right here.
Since we're actually not going to be
doing any manipulation of the data
until after the read actually completes,
we need to set up a completion routine
in order to post-process the data.
So that's where we're going
to be doing our byte swapping.
But first there's some
setup we need to do.
So one of the things we're doing
is we're going to be using memory
mapping instead of read bytes,
write bytes.
Now,
memory mapping gets you a little bit of
a performance gain over the read bytes,
write bytes.
So that's kind of a win.
And then as you can see,
we set up our completion structure here.
And we call read.
And when the read completes,
it'll go down to our completion routine.
So you can see here,
and David Breslis have been involved in
the development of the BITESwap project.
Tim McLeod: So,
the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to do a BITESwap project.
So,
we're going to use the BITESwap project.
So one kind of subtle aspect of this is
that you're going to take a performance
hit when you initially map the buffer.
So you want to kind of,
you want to do that on the client side,
which is in the initial read call.
Everything on the read completion
call is on the work loop,
and so you want to keep your stuff there
real inexpensive and fast if possible.
So that's why we map it actually up here.
So that's pretty much the read routine.
If we take a look at the write now.
It's pretty much the same thing.
You know,
we're going to save a completion
routine and map the buffer.
And then we're going to actually
byte swap the data as it comes in
before we write it to the drive.
The reason we're doing,
setting up a completion again
is because you're potentially,
when you are byte swapping this,
you're potentially manipulating
the client's actual
in-memory copy of this data.
And so there's two
ways to deal with this.
You can, if it's a cheap operation,
if you're only doing something
simple like byte swapping,
you can have a completion routine
that will actually swap the
data back and get you back to
the initial state of the data.
Otherwise, if it's something expensive
like encryption or compression
or something like that,
you might want to think about
double buffering the data
www.timclmc.com/sci-access
and Chris Schaefer are the speakers.
So that's a look at the code.
So let's take a look
at how this all works.
So we've got this text loaded
on our system right now.
I'm going to go ahead and create
a disk image that's going to
be filtered using our filter.
So to do that, we use this command line
utility called hdiutil.
Tell it how big we want it to be.
We're going to pass it a partition type.
Now what this partition type is,
is it's actually the content hit
that gets placed on the image.
So if you're creating some
sort of filtering scheme,
that's how your driver is going to match,
is by the content hit.
And you're going to be putting
a property in your driver's
personality called content hit,
and then it's going to
match on that value.
So that's how our project is set up.
It's set up to match on
Apple ByteSwap to HFS.
So then we'll give it a name.
[Transcript missing]
and you can see that our driver
has found it and there's an extra
slide called Apple Byte Swapped HFS.
Now we're going to create
a file system on there.
[Transcript missing]
If we take a look, you'll be able to see.
So we'll take a look at
the filtered slice first.
If we go to offset 400,
we should see the file
system signature right there.
It says H+.
Now if we open up the unfiltered slice,
and we go to the same offset,
and David Koehn,
and I'm going to give you a quick
example of a few of the things
that we've been working on.
are some of the important aspects
of writing a filter scheme.
And now I'd like to
call up Chris Sarcone.
He's going to talk for a bit.
Thanks, Dan.
So I have the front part of
the methods of access here,
the user clients,
something that everybody
wants to know about.
There are...
Probably a lot of questions out there,
like what is a user client?
A user client is actually an
intermediary between a kernel
object and a user space client,
such as an application.
A user client exports control to user
space code via one of several mechanisms.
The most popular is a device interface.
Device interfaces are based
on an IO CFPlugin structure,
and they act as proxies
for kernel objects.
Another method,
which Craig went into detail about,
is the IOCTL.
And there are other
methods which you can use,
such as like raw mic Mach IPC.
So, you're probably asking what user
clients does Apple actually supply?
Apple supplies several user clients,
some at the media layer and
some at the device layer.
Craig's kind of gone into what the
user clients do at the media layer,
and I'm going to talk to you
a lot about what the user
clients do at the device layer.
At the device layer,
we provide two user clients,
the ATA Smart user client and
the SCSI Task user client.
First, let's look at the ATA user client.
The user client for ATA devices
is called ATA Smart User Client.
It's only available for those
devices which report that they
support the self-monitoring
analysis and reporting technology as
defined in the ATA 6 specification.
There's actually an identifier
in their identified data that
says that they support that.
If they do support that,
there will be some keys
placed in the IORegistry.
A smart user client can attach,
as you can see at the ATA block
storage device object,
and the client application can talk
through the ATA smart interface to
get smart information from the device.
Documentation for this is forthcoming.
This is a new feature in Jaguar.
For now,
you can consult the HeaderDoc placed
in the ATA smart lib header file.
And like I said,
it will be fully documented, I hope,
by the time Jaguar ships.
Now let's look at user
clients for SCSI devices.
The user client for SCSI device
provides two device interfaces.
One is the SCSI task device interface.
The other is the MMC device interface.
There are also supplemental interfaces
which aren't actually device interfaces,
such as the SCSI task interface.
We may add more device interfaces
or supplemental interfaces as more
features are requested from you.
So if you have more feature requests,
let us know.
These device interfaces and
supplemental interfaces are
fully documented inside Mac OS X,
accessing hardware from applications.
There's a chapter on using
SCSI architecture model devices,
and you can find that in
soft copy and hard copy.
And we have an SDK available
for you to get up to speed on
SCSI task user client today.
Let's look at the
SCSI TAS device interface.
The SCSI TAS device interface is provided
for peripheral device types not supported
by Apple with in-kernel drivers.
These devices are tape drives, scanners,
printers, medium changers,
basically anything that doesn't have
storage built in like a hard drive.
The SCSI TAS device interface requires
an exclusive access model so that it
can provide the client application
with full control of the device.
New in Jaguar,
we're going to be adding the
SCSI task management functions.
These task management functions
include things like abort task,
abort task set, reset logical unit,
reset target device, etc.
So, here's an illustration of the
stack and how it builds up for
a user client for a SCSI device.
In this example,
we have a FireWire tape drive.
There's the FireWire
family and FireWire SPP2,
which represents the
physical interconnect.
We then have the IO FireWire serial
bus protocol transport and the
IO SCSI peripheral device NUM.
The stack doesn't build up any
higher than this for us because
there is no internal logical
unit driver for tape drives.
So, the SCSI task user client is
used by the client application
to communicate with this device.
As you can see, the client application
and SCSI task user client,
when used in conjunction,
become the logical unit driver.
And the SCSI task user client
sort of straddles the application
and kernel address space,
so it does the dirty work for
transferring the commands.
Now let's look at the
MMC device interface.
The MMC device interface is
provided for all MMC2 compliant
drives capable of authoring.
Apple defines an authoring capable
drive as one which provides get
configuration profiles that says
that it does CD or DVD burning,
or it says that in the mechanical
capabilities mode page.
The MMC device interface can be used
in conjunction with the SCSI task
device interface to gain exclusive
access to authoring devices.
However,
if you are going to be doing authoring,
you might want to look at
the disk recording framework.
It's much, much more simple than using
the SCSI task device interface,
and it will simplify the amount of
time that you need to spend to get
burning working in your applications.
We also wanted to let you know that
part of the MMC device interface
is a little bit more complicated.
The MMC device interface today provides
information which has now been migrated
to iOctools at the media layer.
And so in the next couple of
revisions of the MMC device interface,
we'll be phasing out some of
those commands in preference
for you using the iOctools.
Here we have an example stack
diagram for a DVD burner.
It's an Atopy DVD drive,
so we have an Atopy
protocol transport driver.
We also noticed that the stack
builds all the way up to the
IO DVD block storage driver.
Now when the SCSI task user client
connects and the client gets
exclusive access to the device,
you'll notice the peripheral device type
5 driver and up are sort of grayed out.
That's to note that they're
sort of quiesced at that time.
And so, again, the client application,
when used in conjunction with
the SCSI task user client,
become the logical unit driver and
have full control of the device.
So now you're probably asking, well,
how do I obtain exclusive
access to one of these devices?
The first thing you need to do is
make sure that you've unmounted all
mounted volumes for that device.
We have new Carbon APIs in
Files.h to unmount the volumes.
Some of these APIs include
fscreate volume operation,
fsdespose volume operation,
and fsunmount volume synchronous
or the async variety,
depending on what your
applications need is.
Also,
you can use a new feature in Jaguar.
The digital hub,
which we have as the center for
all of your digital products,
such as the CD burners and
any sort of camera and stuff,
the digital hub will actually
send notifications when blank
media is inserted to the drive,
and it'll send notifications to
the app that is chosen in the
user's preference pane as the one
for blank CD media or blank media.
And these new APIs are there because
previously people had to use a sort of
private SPI called disk arbitration.
We're hoping that developers will
migrate to these new APIs so that we
can wean them from disk arbitration.
So once you've unmounted all volumes,
you can use the SCSI task device
interface to query whether
exclusive access is available.
If exclusive access is available,
you can then obtain it.
And once you've obtained it,
your application again becomes
the logical unit driver,
and it can send SCSI tasks
down to the device.
Now I'd like to call up
Dan Preston again to do a demo
using the SCSI task user client.
Thanks, Chris.
Okay, so let's open up the project here.
So we thought it'd be kind of
cool to create a demo that does,
it kind of is a simple
diagnostic utility,
and all it really does
is perform a sequence of,
you know, sequential reads on a CD,
and then it kind of
measures how fast it goes.
So, um, the main function in this
is run exclusive test suite.
So the first thing that happens
before this gets called is that
we use the new Carbon APIs to
unmount any devices or any volumes.
So then this gets past a
SCSI task device interface.
Now the first thing that we do is we
obtain exclusive access for the device,
and if that fails, then we bail out.
Otherwise,
we have obtained exclusive access.
Second,
we're going to create the SCSI task,
and that's what we're going
to use to do our work.
We allocate some memory in here.
And then we're going to start
looping and doing our reads.
So...
The next thing we do
is we fill out our CDB.
And in this case, it's just a read 10.
And we're going to set the command
descriptor block within the task.
And then we're going to set
the scatter gather entries.
And after that,
you have to set the timeout.
And optionally,
you can set task attributes with
the set task attribute call.
In our case, we're setting head of queue.
That's just an example.
It's, you don't have to...
[Transcript missing]
and then we're going to send that
information to the graph so it knows.
Finally,
all we have to do is release our memory,
release a task,
and then release exclusive
access to the device.
So let's fire this thing up.
And it shows all the devices
on the computer right here.
[Transcript missing]
So it does 100 reads on the drive.
And then you can see it's getting a
little over a meg and a half a second.
[Transcript missing]
will have details on how to sign up
for that at the end of the session.
So that's about it.
Chris?
Thanks, Dan.
So now, now that we've covered the
Apple-supplied user clients,
the ATA user client and
the SCSI task user client,
and we've given you an example of
how to use the SCSI task user client,
these two user clients might
not satisfy all your needs.
You might need to actually
write a custom user client.
Before you go down the path of
writing a custom user client,
we'd like you to ask
yourself a few questions.
First of all,
is a user client really necessary?
Well, you might ask yourself, "Well,
how do I know if it's necessary or
not?" The questions to ask yourself are,
"Well, how much data do I need to
move back and forth "between
my application and my driver?
"And how often do I need to
do it?" If your data is very,
very small,
something less than four kilobytes,
or you're not doing it too often,
like say you're doing it less than,
you know, once every ten seconds,
you might be able to get
away with other methods.
And so we'd like you to
consider some other options.
You can use I/O registry properties.
You can find static
properties in an application,
and you can set static
properties in a driver.
This is all documented in the
I/O Kit Fundamentals book.
Also, you can dynamically set properties.
Dynamically setting properties requires
an application to build a dictionary and
send the properties down to a device.
And all the device driver has to do
is override a I/O Kit Fundamentals.
And then it's a function
to get those properties.
This works really well for people
that have to set preferences.
So if you have to set preferences,
you might want to think about
creating a system startup item and
then use this method to dynamically
set properties in your driver.
Also, there's a method of doing
asynchronous notifications from the
driver to interested applications.
An application can register for
general interest notifications
and attach that to their run loop,
and then get notified asynchronously from
the driver when certain things happen.
So if you decide that those methods
can't help you and you really
have to write a user client,
you need to create a subclass
of the IO user client class.
You then need to define the
API you want to use between your
application and your driver.
You need to implement those
functions in the kernel.
And then finally you can test it
with a command line app or tool.
There's actually sample code provided
by DTS to do simple user clients,
and that can be expanded to
do lots of different things.
Now we're going to move on
to another method of access,
the IORegistry.
As I mentioned a couple slides before,
you can get static properties from
the registry from an application.
You do this by first finding
out which IO service you
want to get information from.
You do that by calling
IOServiceGetMatchingServices,
and you pass it the I/O Kit master
port and a dictionary for stuff that
signifies what you want it to match.
In this case,
we'll be matching on a driver
whose name is my class name.
This call returns an iterator to you.
You can then loop over that iterator
to get the actual IOService objects.
On that,
you can get the actual IOService object.
You can call
IORegistryEntryCreateCFProperties,
and that gives you back a CFDictionary in
which you can inspect that and look for
properties that you're interested in.
The other way is to
dynamically set properties.
Like I mentioned,
if you wanted to write a system
startup item to set properties,
again, you would try and find the
object you're trying to look for,
and then you call IORegistryEntry
set CF properties after building
a dictionary to send down using
the core foundation routines.
In the kernel, for the set properties,
you would have to
override set properties.
It gets passed in an OS object.
You can cast that to an OS dictionary
and make sure it's the right type.
And once you get that
OS dictionary object,
you can look inside it for properties
that the driver understands.
And from there,
you can go ahead and execute
whatever commands you need to to
set those properties correctly.
Finally, we're going to talk about
migration from obsoleted methods.
There are some methods we
would like to obsolete.
Number one,
we'd like to obsolete SCSI action.
We will be obsoleting SCSI action
in the future because I/O Kit should
contain hardware APIs.
Carbon is going to formally
deprecate this API in Jaguar.
Carbon will remove this API post-Jaguar.
One of the major reasons why we are
getting rid of SCSI action is because
the performance is not very great.
It's a shim on top of a shim,
and you don't tend to get too
great a performance from that.
SCSI action is actually shimmed on
top of IOSCSI lib and IOCDB lib.
Both of these have a limitation
inherent that they will only work
with IOSCSI family-based drivers.
IOSCSI family itself is
going to be replaced by a new
IOSCSI parallel family in Jaguar.
We're hoping to have all of the major
host-bust adapters for SCSI using
the new IOSCSI parallel family.
When they do, IOSCSI lib and IOCDB lib
will no longer function.
One of the main reasons why we're
getting rid of IOSCSI lib is because
most of the functionality is equivalent
or better in the SCSI task user clients.
Finally, those of you who are working
on scanner or printer drivers,
you should look into using the
image capture architecture so that
you can promote system-wide use for
applications for scanners or printers.
For CUPS printers, the CUPS architecture,
the Common Unix Printing
System architecture,
is what will be used in Jaguar
for system-wide printing.
You can use SCSI task user clients
to actually talk to your devices,
but you'd really like to make them
fit within these Apple-supplied
architectures for doing good drivers.
Finally,
we have a roadmap of other sessions
you might be interested in.
There's a session tomorrow
at 2 p.m., session 008,
the Disrecording APIs.
This shows you how to write CDs and
DVDs from your applications.
Also, session 510, Printing in Mac OS X.
This is an overview of
the CUPS architecture,
and that is tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
And finally, session 515,
the Image Capture Framework,
and that is Friday at 2 p.m.
For more information,
you can look at the T10 Committee website
for the SCSI specifications.
It's found at www.t10.org.
And for ATA specifications,
you can visit www.t13.org.
Also,
we have a mass storage discussion list.
To subscribe, you can send an email to
requests at sam.apple.com,
and the message would be
subscribe xmassstorage.
Finally, we also have some documentation.
As mentioned earlier,
we have the Accessing Hardware
from Applications book.
The chapter that you'd probably be
interested would be working with
SCSI Architecture Model Devices.
Both soft copy and hard copy are
available at the following URLs.
and there's also an excellent book on
writing drivers for mass storage devices.
And again,
soft copy and hard copy are available.
And finally,
if you need to contact somebody,
you can contact Mark Tozer.
He's the hardware evangelist.